the full title of Shakespeare's
so-called first folio is mr. William
Shakespeare's comedies histories and
tragedies he was published in 1623 seven
years after the bards death the first
folio is widely credited with sustaining
the legacy of the playwrights work and
ensuring that countless generations
could enjoy Shakespeare's plays that
copy of Hamlet or King Lear you read in
school was derived from the first folio
the plays of the greatest writer that
ever lived
might not have survived without this
book the first folio contains 36 of
Shakespeare's plays and it is the only
source for 18 of them including Macbeth
the word folio refers to its
considerable size plays were not
published in that large format prior to
the First Folio because they were
considered too trivial edited by his
friends and fellow actors John Hemings
and Henry Condell it is thought 800
copies were produced and that 233 still
exist each copy is slightly different
because the manuscripts were proof read
and corrected while the printing was in
progress
so it was a major news story when a
small library in northern France
discovered it had a first folio sitting
there on its bookshelves and it had lain
there untouched for the past two
centuries for the librarian who dusted
it off it was the discovery of a
lifetime the first folios original price
was just one pound and like most books
of that era the folio was sold unbound
so buyers needed to have it bound in
leather it's quite simply one of the
most desirable books in the world but
then again it did help shape the English
language a copy sold at auction in 2001
in New York for a cool 6.1 million
dollars today copies can only be found
in places like the Bodley and library in
Oxford the British Library the Folger
Shakespeare Library in Washington DC and
the National Library in Paris